rdiosync
=================

## About

Rdio currently only supports synchronizing music collections if you keep your
tracks in iTunes or Windows Media Payer. If you keep your music organized
manually, this script will allow you to benefit as well.

It scans your local collection and uses the Rdio API to match artists & albums,
and add each track found to your collection.

### Assumptions

This tool is currently focused on those who collect primarily full albums, not
individual tracks. When scanning, if it encounters a track from an album, all of
the tracks from that album are added to your Rdio collection regardless of
whether or not they existed on disk.

The tool uses the [mutagen][] library to load metadata from your audio files. It
supports many formats, but for the moment this tool only scans for MP3 and FLAC.
If you have music in another format supported by mutagen, it's a simple as
adding it to the scan filter.

[mutagen]: (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/mutagen/1.12)

## Requirements

Install all of the dependencies with pip:

    $ pip install pip-requirements.txt

This will install:

* [mutagen][]
* kreeger's [python-rdio](https://github.com/kreeger/python-rdio)

## Configuration

Get an Rdio API key from http://developer.rdio.com, then add your authentication
information to the rdiosync config:

    $ python -m rdiosync.sync --api-key <YOUR_KEY> --api-secret <YOUR_SECRET>

Next, set the root path to your music collection:

    $ python -m rdiosync.sync --music-path <MUSIC_PATH>

You can always check the current configuration, too:

    $ python -m rdiosync.sync --print-config


## Authentication

Now you must get authenticate your client for your Rdio user account using
OAuth. Just try to run a sync:

    $ python -m rdiosync.sync

## Sync

Now that the configuration and authentication is squared away (and stored in the
'config' file in your current directory) you can kick of the sync process:

    $ python -m rdiosync.sync

The tool will spit out lots of information what what it's syncing, what it's
not, and why along the way. Your collection is indexed in the 'collection' file
that's created, so you don't have to worry about calling the Rdio API thousands
of times every time you sync. It will keep track of which albums have been
previously matched and uploaded, and not repeat the process.
